Hey there and welcome to today's episode
of Build Your Tribe where I'm going to
be sharing with you eight easy Instagram
reel ideas that should take you 5
minutes or less to complete and thus
make staying consistent and posting
regularly on Instagram that much easier.
Not only are these ideas going to be
simple and easy to execute, these are
also ideas that often times get very
high if not above average engagement. So
they should be a great way to get more
views, likes, comments, saves, and
shares in less time.
Now before we even get into this list, I
do want to mention that I did post an
episode of Build Your Tribe a few months
back with eight additional ideas. So
after watching today's video, I highly
recommend going back and checking that
out. But with that being said, today is
going to be eight totally unique ideas
that are separate from the eight ideas
listed in that video. And also to share
a little bit of strategy with you before
we get into this list, the more you
post, the more you grow. Of course,
that's an oversimplification, but that's
an easy way to remember it. There is no
magic number of posts that you need to
be making every single day. Some people
will tell you it's one, some people will
tell you need to post three times a day,
some people will tell you you don't need
to post every day. But what I can tell
you is this, the facts are the facts and
the facts clearly tell us the more
you're posting, asterisk, the more you
will grow. Now that asterisk means that
the post need to be of a certain level
of quality, they need to be good enough,
they need to be relevant to your ideal
audience, they need to be related to
your niche. But as long as you check off
those boxes, it is generally true that
as you post more frequently, your growth
rate increases as well. This is
something that I've been saying for
years, but just recently Instagram CEO
actually confirmed it himself. And
regardless of how you or I may feel
about him and his opinions that he may
have and how he runs the app, he was
stating a fact when he shared on
Threads, an interesting recent finding.
People often worry about posting too
often to Instagram because they
sometimes see their followers decrease
after they post. Turns out that though
that is often true, people will see
something that you post and follow you.
It turns out if you post frequently,
your follower count on average declines
in the short term, but grows faster in
the long run. And this is absolutely
what we found to be the case and it's to
be expected. If you suddenly begin
posting more frequently on Instagram,
you will start showing up on more
people's feed and that will result in an
immediate slight decrease in followers.
But in the long run, when you zoom out
and look at your growth month over
month, you will see that the fastest way
to grow on Instagram is by posting more
frequently. Again though, like I said,
there is no magic number. So instead,
you need to figure out what works for
you. Figure out what you can sustain in
this current season of your business and
your life and also make sure to factor
in what your own goals are. Maybe your
goal isn't growing super fast right now,
you just want to nurture the audience
you already have. Maybe your goal is
growth, but you just kind of want a slow
and steady growth because your
priorities are in other areas of your
business and your life right now. Figure
out what you can sustain and then here's
where I like to add on to that.
Challenge yourself to do just a little
bit more. I am not a fan of hustle
culture, I am not a fan of burning the
candle at both ends, I'm not a fan of
working until 4:00 or 5:00 in the
morning or anything crazy like that that
would be unhealthy for your physical or
your mental health. But I am a fan of
challenging yourself and pushing
yourself outside of what you think you
can do or further than what you think
you're comfortable with. Basically,
pushing yourself to do just a little bit
more. So if you figure out that in this
current season, you can sustain three
feed posts per week, I'm going to
challenge you to post four or five feed
posts per week. If you can post one
every single day, then my challenge for
you is to post more than one on let's
say two or three days per week. Because
again, going back to what I said earlier
and what Adam Mosseri, Instagram CEO,
echoed, the more you post, the more you
grow. So enough blabbering on about
strategy, let's get to why you came,
which is eight different Instagram reel
ideas that you can make in less than 5
minutes. The first idea is something
that my good friend Modern Millie does
often on her Instagram, so shout out to
her. It's a 1 second per day reel and
you film it over the course of a month.
And so what I would recommend doing here
is setting a reminder in your phone or
maybe a little notification or maybe
putting like a sticky note on your car
window or maybe like your your bathroom
mirror or something like that where
you're going to see it every single day.
And essentially, the reminder is just to
take one video every single day and the
video only has to be 1 second long. Now,
you could be more strategic about it and
try to make the video relate to your
niche or try to make each day's clip
interesting and exciting, maybe your
highlight of that day. Or you could
quite literally set the reminder to go
off at 1:30 p.m. every single day and
then you just pull up your phone and
record yourself doing whatever it is
that you're doing at that time. You
could use a tripod, you could prop your
phone up on like a bookshelf or
something or you could even just hold it
in your hand selfie style and film
yourself for 1 second. Then at the end
of the month, you just put together all
of those 1 second videos and 30 1 second
videos will of course make a 30 second
reel and it's a very engaging and
captivating way that you can give people
kind of like a recap of what your month
has been, what you've done, maybe the
low points and the highlights of your
month in a very transparent and honest
way where you're not telling them,
you're quite literally showing them what
you've done over the last month. Now I
understand you could argue, Brock, this
doesn't take 5 minutes, this takes 31
days. I hear you, but it doesn't take 31
days of consecutive work. It takes 1
second of work every single day for a
month and then you basically have one
reel done for the next month. So you
could do this every single day of April
and then on May 1st, boom, you have a
reel that's ready to go that's very
engaging, interactive, and a cool way to
connect with your audience. Idea number
two is what I'm calling a quick
transition reel. These are very, very
popular and they're usually paired with
some sort of trending audio or popular
song on Instagram and the idea here is
that you essentially record two to three
seconds of yourself, maybe working,
maybe lip syncing an audio if that
applies in this case, or just doing
whatever relates to your niche. And then
you do some kind of transition.
Preferably, you're doing a in-video
transition where you're actually doing
the transition rather than just like
slapping on an effect. For example,
maybe you're going to film yourself for
the first two or three seconds and then
you're going to turn your head to the
right, stop the video, and then you're
going to film the second clip where your
head is finishing the look to the right
and now you're kind of like looking at
your phone in a new angle. They're very
easy to do, they're very engaging
because within the first few seconds of
the video, there is something that is
visually hooking us in and grabbing our
attention. And they're often times a
good way to present content that is
either a before and after or a contrary
to popular belief or an unpopular
opinion or to kind of just like break or
disrupt someone's expectations with that
second clip after the transition. So
again, I know we're playing some clips
on the screen for you to get an example
of, these are very easy to create,
they're very quick to make, and they're
very engaging. They're a great way to
hook your audience in and deliver a
really punchy short piece of content.
Idea number three uses AI to take long
form videos and automatically cut them
into short form videos. Now there are a
few different platforms online where you
can do this, where you can take a
YouTube video or a podcast or even just
a long, let's say live video that you
have recorded, upload it to the platform
and then the platform will automatically
splice it up, edit it, in some cases it
can add closed captions or even tell you
which video is likely going to perform
the best. This video is not sponsored by
Munch, but personally, that's what I
use. Get g e t munch m u n c h.com. And
if you use the code Brock15, you'll get
15% off. Again though, this isn't
sponsored, but I did want to shout out
Munch because of all the different tools
that I have tried for this sort of
automatic editing, that's what I found
works the best. And again, like I
described a moment ago, essentially,
Munch will take your long form video and
it will automatically cut it up into
bite-size segments based off what you
want. You can tell it that you want it
to make reels or TikToks or YouTube
shorts. It'll cut it up, it'll add
closed captions, and then it will even
recommend which videos are likely going
to perform the best based off what is
currently trending or what is currently
being searched for the most. So that's a
tool that I really like to use. It's a
great way to repurpose content like the
podcast you're watching right now into
short form content that is better suited
for TikTok, Instagram, etc. Idea number
four is to rely on other people to
create the content for you and let me
explain what I mean by that. Of course,
you could do user-generated content,
which is where you pay another content
creator to create content for you and
you could pay them either monetarily or
with products or shout-outs or whatever.
Or really what I'm specifically thinking
of when I say using other people's
content for your own reels is not
stealing, not at all. It's actually
getting testimonials or reviews or
feedback from your followers. So let's
say someone sent you a direct message on
Instagram and they're like, "Oh my gosh,
I loved your bootcamp. I lost 7 lb in
the first 2 weeks and I feel so much
better every morning." You could reply
to that DM and be like, "Dude, I'm so
flipping proud of you. That is amazing.
Way to go. Would you mind recording a
vertical video of yourself just like 10
seconds long saying exactly that and
then I could post it onto my Instagram?"
That is a very easy way to collect
testimonials and feedback and reviews
and that builds trust and credibility
with you or your brand or your service
or your product and it also feels very
rewarding to the person who is sharing
that review because it's kind of like
they're getting a shout-out on your
page. It's kind of like your page is
being like, "Hey, check out this
person's awesome results. Check out how
cool they are. It feels very much like a
public acknowledgement and a kudos to
them. Um, and often times they will then
in turn share that reel to their stories
or with their audience, which will help
you get even more views and engagement.
You could even potentially consider
collaborating with that person when you
do make that post to really ensure that
that reel reaches their audience. So
again, when I say having someone else
create content for your Instagram, you
could do UGC. I would not ever recommend
stealing someone's post, but what I
would recommend doing is connecting with
your customers, your followers, uh, your
loyal subscribers, and seeing if their
two cents, their feedback, their review
of your stuff, um, is worth putting on
your Instagram. Idea number five for a
quick and easy reel that should take you
less than 5 minutes, but has been shown
to get very good engagement is one that
my good old friend Marketing Harry does
all the time, which I'm going to call
handwriting reels. The way he does it is
very cool. He will kind of do it like
Mad Lib style, where if there's, let's
say, an eight-word sentence, he will
write out six of the eight words, so you
can kind of see this like unfinished
sentence on the paper, and then he'll
like write in the two missing words, and
then he'll like highlight certain things
or scribble things out, and it's
interactive. It It feels, uh, very
engaging and just different than what
you normally see with most of your
reels. He doesn't have to put his face
on camera. He doesn't even have to put
his voice in the background, yet he's
still able to articulate a point, um, or
get a message across in a way that's
relatively simple. All it takes is
writing on a piece of paper and then
filming said piece of paper. It's kind
of like taking the idea of a text post
reel, which is something that I talked
about in the previous video where I gave
you the, uh, eight other ideas for easy,
simple reels, but instead of making it a
digital text post, it's a literal
written out text post. Idea number six
is a time-lapse reel. Time-lapse is a
style of video where essentially the
camera is taking only one photo or one
short video every X number of minutes.
So rather than watching it in real time,
you're going to watch something that
looks very, very sped up. If you've ever
seen like clouds move very quickly and,
uh, daytime transition to sunset and
into nighttime, that's what a time-lapse
video is, and pretty much every
smartphone in their camera has a
time-lapse mode. So set up your your
phone, throw it on a shelf or on a
tripod or whatever, and just film
yourself on time-lapse doing whatever it
is that you would normally do. Working
at a desk, maybe cooking something in
the kitchen, working out, going for a
walk, whatever it may be. This is very
similar to B-roll content where you are
filming yourself in your daily life. The
only difference here is that this style
of video is a little bit more original
and unique. It's something that you
don't quite see as often, but what it
does show is how things change over
time, and it shows kind of like
consistency or dedication. If you could
imagine a time-lapse video of me
recording this podcast, it would be, you
know, me moving very fast and jittery,
but you would be able to tell that I was
sitting here recording for quite a long
period of time, and then I could like
slap a hook on top of it or I could add
some text on top of it to make the video
even more engaging, but it's a video
that is kind of being made for you. You
can go about living your regular life,
doing what you would normally do, and
just let the time-lapse run and record
in the background, and then when you're
doing whatever it was that you needed to
do, boom, you have a piece of content
that's ready to go. Idea number seven is
to remix someone else's reel. Remix is
the Instagram equivalent of a stitch. So
on TikTok, if you've ever watched one of
those videos where it says like stitch
incoming, and like a couple seconds into
the video it cuts from the original
creator into someone who is like adding
their two cents, the same is true on
Instagram. It's very easy to do. All you
have to do is tap on the three dots in
the upper right-hand corner of anyone's
post, and then tap remix this reel, and
then you're able to edit it or add on to
it or throw your own version onto the
end of it. There's also an option called
sequence, and sequence is honestly
probably more like the stitch feature on
TikTok, where sequence is truly the
original video will play for a few
seconds, and then your video will come
up second in the sequence, hence the
word sequence, and you can continue
adding on, sharing your own opinion,
maybe you agree or disagree or you have
a personal story to share. Often times
creators will make videos where it's
like, you know, share your most
traumatic childhood memory that's
actually funny, and then it will
sequence, and that's kind of the prompt
where you're then going to cut in and
share your own two cents, your own
story, or whatever it may be, but it's a
very easy way to come up with content
that other people are often times
prompting you on. A common way that I
like to find content to remix or stitch
or sequence is to look up hashtags that
say like #remix, #stitch, or #sequence,
and then I can find other people who
have remixed, stitched, or sequenced
someone else's video. I can go back to
that original video, and then I can do
my own version of it. That's an easy way
to to find that kind of content, the
kind of like prompt or hook that then
you can add on to. The final reel idea
that I have for you that is very easy to
create, very simple, very fast, and is
great specifically for getting more
comments, is creating a reel where you
are literally just asking an open-ended
question. This isn't the kind of reel
where you're teaching, where you're
educating, you're inspiring, you're
giving a tip, anything like that. It's
literally just an open-ended question.
Now, if you're someone who doesn't get
very many comments to begin with, maybe
you're just getting started out on
Instagram, or your audience is just not
that engaged, I wouldn't recommend this
one because of the bias that people have
to not necessarily want to go first.
Like if you're telling everyone to
comment, and then they look at the
comments, and there's no comments, no
one really wants to go first, no one
wants to be the person to break the ice.
So instead, what can often times be
easier is not asking for comments when
you have a smaller audience, but if you
have maybe a larger audience or a more
engaged audience, or just an audience
that loves to share their two cents and
answer questions, then create a reel
where you are literally just asking a
question. I did a version of this
recently where I essentially said, "I
have a challenge for you. If you have
less than 50,000 followers, leave a
comment on this post with some sort of
Instagram question that you have. And if
you have more than 50,000 followers,
answer at least one question in the
comments. Let's make this the most
valuable post in the history of
Instagram. Okay, go." That was it. Like
I was literally just asking people to
ask questions and answer questions, and
that post got like a thousand comments
or something. It was awesome. Really
great to see how interactive people were
and how much my community was answering
each other's questions and interacting
with each other. Great way for me to
boost engagement, and it was a very,
very easy reel to create. It didn't
require any thought or any planning
really on my end. It didn't require me
to share a tip or create a hook. I was
literally just asking a question. Now,
speaking of asking a question, if you're
watching this on YouTube, let me know
down in the comments which of these
eight ideas are you going to give a try
first. Let me know, and then also make
sure to watch that previous episode if
you haven't already. Make sure to give
that one a listen where I give you eight
additional ideas. So now you have 16
reel ideas that you could easily create
in 5 minutes or less. Get to creating,
stop overthinking, start posting, and as
always, happy networking. Woo!